	        
Ramin Shahriari			 					 
rshahriari@alumni.usc.edu
(310) 795-5128
Cary, NC 27513


Objective
Senior leadership in a fast-growing company where I can leverage my leadership, management, innovation, and architectural skills to drive results and contribute to the company's and industry's advancement.

Summary of Qualifications
Seasoned Software Engineering Leader with 25 years of experience in quality software architecture and development, including 14 years in leadership. Proven track record in delivering reliable, secure, and high-quality products on time in multi-location, multi-discipline agile environments, on-premises and in the cloud.  

Professional Experiences
ServiceTrade, Durham, NC	October 2018 - Present
Vice President of Engineering	
Directed infrastructure and automation strategies, growing the engineering team from 4 to 86 engineers across 9 agile teams, including on-shore, offshore, and nearshore engineers.
Managed multiple tech stacks (LAMP, MERN, Serverless, .Net Core) and cloud platforms (AWS, Azure), overseeing developers, QA, DevOps, site reliability, architects, and development managers.
Developed and optimized a robust, reliable, secure, and compliant software deployment ecosystem.
Implemented engineering metrics and KPIs to support the team in continuously improving quality and efficiency, ensuring predictable delivery. 
Enabled cross-divisional collaboration and reengineered processes to enhance overall productivity.
Established quality metrics to measure, understand, and prioritize code quality improvements, facilitating clear communication across the organization and with customers.
Conducted technical due diligence for capital investments (Frontier Growth: $10M; JMI: $85M).
Evaluated, acquired, successfully onboarded, integrated, and grew two software companies.
Managed business relationships with third-party software vendors and represented the company to customers.
Managed budget planning and cost management for all engineering resources, including headcounts, contracts, software infrastructure cost optimizations, and infrastructure roadmap planning.

Netsertive, Morrisville, NC	2010 - 2018
Senior Director of Engineering	March 2018 - September 2018
Director of Engineering	2016 - 2018
Delivered reliable, high-quality, secure software from definition to delivery, support, and maintenance for all Netsertive products.
Expanded the engineering team from 2 individuals to 7 agile teams, 5 managers, 5 architects, and a total of 50 engineers, including developers, QA, DevOps, and DBAs onshore and offshore.
Led the transition from LAMP stack to MERN stack, moved to microservice-based architecture, and migrated from on-prem to AWS cloud.
Managed engineering budget planning, capacity planning, resource management, and software capitalization.
Assisted in evaluating and reviewing IP during mergers and acquisitions.

Software Development Manager	2013 - 2016
Coached and transitioned the engineering team to agile Scrum and Kanban methodologies.
Recruited and managed 12 software and QA engineers across 4 Scrum/Kanban teams, leading to a fivefold increase in product features within one year.
Assisted other departments in hiring and growth, including product management, recruiting, and sales productivity.
Promoted the internship program, resulting in 10 software interns over 6 summers, with 6 transitioning to full-time positions.
Mentored engineers in their career development, with several advancing to management and leadership roles.
Conducted weekly architecture and knowledge-sharing sessions.
Formed committees and tiger teams to address process and tool challenges, fostering collaboration and teamwork.

Senior Software Engineer	2010 - 2012
Architected, and developed tools in LAMP stack on-prem, to manage and monitor advertising campaigns using Google AdWords, Bing AdCenter, and Facebook API.
Created development processes for all development life cycles.

Motricity, Morrisville, NC	2006 - 2010
Lead Software Engineer	
Managed and led eight developers across three offices, onshore and offshore.
Created development processes for all life cycles in an agile framework and coached the team in adopting it.
Collaborated with the management team on product pipelines and capacity planning.
Gathered and clarified requirements to meet architectural goals and customer needs, including compliance with carriers like Verizon, AT&T, and T-Mobile.
Architected, designed, and developed new features and enhancements for 80% of gateway components using .Net framework.
Supported business, QA, DBA, and support teams with documentation, architectural reviews, training, and process improvements.

Prior Experiences:	1998 -  2006
Hardware and Software Design Engineer, various companies in Los Angeles California 	
Developed GUI interfaces for digital servo controllers, communicating through USB (hardware, software, and firmware).
Designed hardware and software for servo controllers.
Improved productivity by designing and maintaining company web pages, product inventory, and documentation.
Introduced continuous integration and unit-test frameworks for robot-controller products.
Designed and supported control systems using microprocessors

Education
North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC 	2013
Jenkins Graduate School of Management.
Master of Business Administration (MBA) – Dual concentration in Entrepreneurship and Finance.		

University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA	2004
Masters of Science in Computer Science.
Research Assistant – DBLab, InfoLab – Scalable .Net Infrastructure, Peer-to-Peer Networks.
Teaching Assistant – Programming the World Wide Web.

Sharif University of Technology, Tehran, Iran	2000
Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering.
Full scholarship in number one ranked Engineering University in Iran.

Certifications and Awards
Practical Management and Leadership Practices Certification, CAI Training	2015
Certified Scrum Master	2010
Best Paper Award	2006
“SkiPeR: A Family of Distributed Range Addressing Spaces for Peer-to-Peer Systems.” A. Daskos, S. Ghandeharizadeh, & R. Shahriari. ISCA 15th International Conference on Software Engineering and Data Engineering, (SEDE 2006), CA, July 2006.

References - Available upon request